this math puzzle is causing a stir on
the Internet Cheryl's birthday is one of
ten possible dates Cheryl does not tell
her birthdate to anyone but she does
tell the month of her birthday to Albert
and the day of her birthday to Bernard
Albert says out loud
I don't know Cheryl's birthday but I
know that Bernard doesn't know it either
upon hearing this Bernard says I didn't
know her birthday at first but now I do
know Albert replies now I also know
Cheryl's birthday when is Cheryl's
birthday it seems impossible but you can
figure it out based on the logic of what
each person said hi this is presto occur
in this video I'm going to give the
solution to Cheryl's birthday problem
let's take a look at the information
we're going to consider the sentences
one at a time when Albert says he
doesn't know Cheryl's birthday that's
obvious but what's important is he says
he knows for sure that Bernard does not
know the birthday either how could he
know that how is this possible well
imagine Bernard was told the date of 19
in that case Bernard would know it would
have to be May 19th that's the only date
with the 19 if Bernard was told the date
of 18 he would also know that the
birthday has to be June 18th that's the
only date with an 18 so when Albert says
he knows that Bernard cannot know the
birthday he must have been told the
months of July or August so it couldn't
possibly be May or June so we can
eliminate five of the dates and be
left with only five of the dates Barnard
figures this out and upon eliminating
five of the dates he says all right I
didn't know Cheryl's birthday at first
but now from these five dates I can
figure it out so this can eliminate a
few more dates
if Barnard was told 14th it would still
be ambiguous whether the month was July
or August
so Barnard was not told 14th there are
now only three possible dates that
Cheryl's birthday could be Albert now
says finally he says now I know Cheryl's
birthday so obviously he couldn't have
been told it was August because their
two dates for August so we can eliminate
that he was told August he must have
been told July so that's Cheryl's
birthday its July 16 I know it's
complicated to follow through the logic
but it's mathematically sound if you
need to check it out you can read my
blog post it sometimes as easier and
text but the birthday is July 16th and
that's the only logically consistent
date I hope you liked this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and math puzzles you can get my
books there's a link in the video
description you can follow me on my blog
mind your decisions which you can catch
on Facebook and Google+ you can also
follow me at pressure Walker on Twitter
Instagram Tumblr and Pinterest and you
can support me on patreon